look I don't like the Marianne
Williamson one in particular because it
plays into this very dismissive nature
that I'm seeing from people in the media
where they think oh you know she doesn't
have experience in politics she doesn't
know what she's doing the orbs and the
crystals and the psychic stuff that's
all she's all about but she's actually
incredibly smart no although this is
said with good intentions
it is a badly misplaced good intention
it is quite appropriate to judge someone
by their convictions and it is important
and useful to judge a politician by
their convictions although it may be
inappropriate to judge someone by the
religion they are born into if they're a
member of that religion because of
decisions made by their parents by their
grandparents or by their ancestors
centuries ago decisions they may not be
responsible for they may not have
reconsidered they may not have thought
through the consequences of by the same
token is appropriate and it is important
to judge someone if they themselves
chose the religion that they were part
of if they themselves invented or
reinvented the religion they're a part
of in this case Marianne Williamson is
someone who didn't just choose a new
religion she propounded it became its
leading preacher in many ways she
redefined the religion that she was a
member of and that she was a major
leader of and I wanted to do a defense
of Marianne Williamson it's more about
the dismissive nature I'm noticing from
everyone in the media both mainstream
and independent media when it comes to
Marianne Williamson and look to be fair
she didn't really get much of an
opportunity to speak during the debates
I wasn't dismissive of her but I didn't
really think much about Marianne
Williamson until believe it or not I
watched her full interview on Dave Rubin
show and look this this is not to say
that Dave Rubin is a great interviewer
that is not the case but she was given a
platform where she was able to really
speak her mind and delve into the issues
that mattered to her pictured here is
the cover of the book that Marianne
Williamson devoted her life
to teaching and preaching this book A
Course in Miracles was allegedly written
by Jesus Christ I have had me not seems
Briley knew a lot of people devote their
lives to a book allegedly written by
Jesus Christ this one is a little bit
unusual in that he supposedly wrote it
in English between the year 1965 and
1972 will be a big mistake if people use
the course as a way of building another
church a cult a community of followers
etc its purpose is to be a self-study
course where people develop a
relationship with Jesus or the Holy
Spirit and work with them on healing
their relationships many of the terms in
the course aren't Christian so-called
Christian terms but what the course does
is give a whole new in understanding and
a different interpretation might say to
the term so that the Holy Spirit in the
course would really be the presence in
our right mind of them of the memory of
God the course says God did not create
this world because it's the opposite of
heaven all right
there's no materiality in heaven there's
only spirit there's no bodies there's
oneness not multiplicity you begin to
understand that we're starting from a
whole different point of view here and
that's why the course says my interests
are not separate from you is because
ultimately we are all one not as you and
me but the oneness of heaven right so
that that doesn't sound like a new
religious movement at all huh that
doesn't sound like a religion at all
it's just a course it's just a course to
help you up a new relationship with
Jesus Christ God your soul the afterlife
infini right God got a course mm-hmm
they're an educational foundation yeah
and just like a two-minute Google search
of Marianne Williamson lecturing on this
or even a glance at the almighty
Wikipedia about what Marianne Williamson
did with their career yeah might be a
little bit more of an educational
perspective than what we hear here from
the
young turks in ana kasparian she went
into like deep details on various issues
reparations corporate control corporate
greed I mean it was it was impressive I
really really enjoyed listening to her
speak about these important issues and
do so as candidly as she did no I
actually think she's terrific in a lot
of ways and I've interviewed her a
number of times and one other thing that
they're discounting is that she built a
giant movement in this country that's
right Jake she built a giant movement a
giant movement based on lies lies and
superstition and taking advantage of
emotionally damaged vulnerable people
who were reaching out for help that's
what she did and here you are making
excuses for she built a giant movement
in this country and that's not a small
thing and every was like oh Chris was
this this hahahaha says I don't do it
I'm laughing right but there are
millions of people in this country that
she is empowered and love her and she
built that out of out of nowhere would
you make that excuse for the Pope would
you make that excuse for a firebrand
Muslim preacher how about even a
Buddhist preacher how about this Jake
seeing as you guys at the Young Turks
really do like to do investigative
reporting um it turns out that her
foundation the the foundation for inner
peace it's it's a registered charity
it's a 501 C charity do you think do you
think you'd maybe Google around and come
up with an estimate of how much money
she's made from this how much money
she's made from that foundation from
selling millions of copies of that
particular book from promoting that book
on The Oprah Winfrey Show or from her
own series of best-selling spiritual
books exploiting people's superstition
ignorance emotional vulnerability and
desperation for help people need help
people want help people are reaching out
for love and they will donate
including you know bequests including
when they die leaving all their
possessions to a foundation like the
foundation for inner peace people will
do anything just to get what marianne
williamson is going to give them and you
can watch the videos yourself of what
complete nonsense she has to say when
she's on stage behind the microphone
preaching to these true believers you
could have done any of this back with
you and then then you can come on
Cameron you could tell me if you have
any respect for the message or the
messenger or for the supposedly positive
benefit this has in people's lives but
yeah be nice to hear the next year how
much money you think she's made out of
this venture and then how those millions
of dollars ended up getting funneled
into repeated attempts to get herself
elected to Congress and now the
president states that doesn't sound like
the sort of story that a lifelong
anti-corruption activists like yourself
genk Weger somebody who's opposed to
money in politics
somebody's battle-cries giving it well
that doesn't sound like something you'd
be really sympathetic to when I've heard
you preach so many times get money out
of politics of all the money in politics
marianne williamson 'he's money is the
dirtiest money of all so i think she
deserves a tremendous amount of respect
for that
[Music]